hi I'm Mike Holmes in this video series
I'm demystifying radio advertising for
you so you'll know what a good
commercial is and how to schedule it so
that it'll produce the results you want
let's talk about two of the most
effective tools there are in writing
commercials that get and hold attention
funny commercials and story commercials
funny commercials score highly in
retention and effectiveness but there's
one thing the humor can never just be
thrown in to draw attention remember the
last time you told somebody about a
funny commercial and after you finished
laughing the person you're talking to
says what was it for and you don't
remember someone spent a lot of money to
make you laugh but didn't give you any
reason to go do business with him even
national commercials are guilty of this
so the humor in a commercial has one
purpose to advance the message it must
be intimately involved with that message
let's listen to a funny commercial
chocolate occasions so you folks will
ship chocolate gifts anywhere in the
country yes sir we talked about 0
Montana oh I guess we could send you all
Florida let me look that one up I had
let's go Michigan as a town called disco
I just said something a muddler Kentucky
I think we could do then what about
waterproof Louisiana do you have a zip
code on that surface off that occasion
since gifts any place in the US from
right here in Harrisonburg all the
places mentioned are real and it's not
our fault
chocolate occasions Harrisonburg next to
Plato's Closet across from Kroger in
this commercial the humor dramatizes and
reinforces the point that chocolate
occasions ships anywhere in the United
States now I'd like to tell you a story
about a guy whose restaurant went bust
and sitting on his front steps
collecting Social Security at age 65
took a hundred and five dollars and his
mother's fried chicken recipe and
develop one of the world's most
successful franchises might be
interesting to hear what happened huh
that's because it's a story and stories
are one of the advertisers most powerful
friends when we hear a story we just
have to hear how it turns out you can
use this in commercials tell a story
we've the product into it and well let's
listen to a story commercial it was like
this I go to Glenn's fair price to make
myself up like a werewolf see so I'm
dressed like this werewolf and I'm
driving to the costume party when I stop
for a loaf of bread while I walk in
store harrenhal and suddenly everybody
starts hollering and knocking stuff down
and I say hey it's just this great
costume with makeup from glen's you
nitwit but then somebody calls the cops
and I get thirty days because three old
ladies fainted in the middle of frozen
foods she see even a very short story
draws us in doesn't it in the Halloween
commercial you could see the guy going
into the store dressed like a werewolf
couldn't you in the next video we'll
talk about one of my favorite kinds of
radio jingles I'm Mike Holmes I write
and produce commercials that work visit
my new fun site at Michael Holmes
advertising.com thanks for watching